# Web Application Firewall (WAP)

A WAF or Web Application [[firewall]] helps protect web applications by filtering and monitoring HTTP traffic between a web application and the Internet. It typically protects web applications from attacks such as cross-site forgery, cross-site-scripting (XSS), file inclusion, and SQL injection, among others. A WAF is a protocol layer 7 defense (in the OSI model), and is not designed to defend against all types of attacks. This method of attack mitigation is usually part of a suite of tools which together create a holistic defense against a range of attack vectors.

By deploying a WAF in front of a [web application, a shield is placed between the web application and the Internet. While a [[proxy-server]] protects a client machine’s identity by using an intermediary, a WAF is a type of [[reverse-proxy]], protecting the server from exposure by having clients pass through the WAF before reaching the server.

A WAF operates through a set of rules often called policies. These policies aim to protect against vulnerabilities in the application by filtering out malicious traffic. The value of a WAF comes in part from the speed and ease with which policy modification can be implemented, allowing for faster response to varying attack vectors; during a DDoS attack, rate limiting can be quickly implemented by modifying WAF policies.

## Useful links
- [What is a WAF? | Web Application Firewall explained](https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/ddos/glossary/web-application-firewall-waf/)

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[firewall]: firewall "Firewall"
[proxy-server]: ../cloud-computing/proxy-server "Proxy Server"
[reverse-proxy]: ../cloud-computing/reverse-proxy "Reverse Proxy"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
